Basic Bible teachings are wonderful.
Usually,
it’s the fundamental doctrines of the Bible
—basic teachings—
that draw people to the truth.
However, learning basic Bible teachings
is just the beginning
of knowledge about Jehovah.
At Hebrews 6:1,
the apostle Paul exhorts
all students of God’s Word
to progress beyond basic teachings.
This is what is stated at Hebrews 6:1:
“Therefore, now that we have moved beyond
“the primary doctrine about the Christ,
let us press on to maturity.”
Isn’t that what we want to achieve
with our Bible students,
to help them move beyond the primary doctrine
and progress to Christian maturity?
It comes about in degrees
as students acquire
an increased level of knowledge
and appreciation for the truth.
Bible students must learn to love God
and his standards and appreciate
that all of his ways and requirements
are expressions of his love for us.
When Bible students experience the good
that comes from obeying Jehovah
and following his ways,
their love for him will deepen.
As you watch the following video,
please note how a sister helps her student
to make progress toward maturity.
Mrs. Iwata was doing great.
We were already on Lesson 10.
I really hoped she’d come to a meeting soon.
We talked about Hebrews 10:24, 25
and watched the video.
Did I miss something?
I guess I did.
I was too focused
on our progress with the lessons
instead of her progress and what she needed.
Mr. Iwata said going to meetings
would dishonor the family.
He wanted her to quit the study.
She didn’t want to quit,
but whenever she tried to talk about it,
they argued.
We showed her where to look for help
and made time during our studies
to talk about it more.
And we all prayed for Jehovah
to bless her efforts.
We did our best
to share the good news of peace,
and Jehovah did the rest.
As we saw, the student took an important step
toward Christian maturity
when she began to attend meetings.
As you study with your student
lessons 7 to 11
of the Enjoy Life Forever!  book,
please be sure to highlight
Jehovah’s appealing qualities
that are set forth in those lessons.
For example, lesson 7
of the Enjoy Life Forever!  book
describes Jehovah’s loving ways.
We want to help our students to understand
that Jehovah
really does love them as individuals
and wants them to achieve everlasting life.
The apostle John highlights Jehovah’s love
at 1 John 4:9
by pointing out
that Jehovah sent Jesus to earth
to take our place in death
and thus pay for our inherited sins
and our personal sins.
Yes, out of love,
Jehovah provided a way for us
to enjoy an approved standing with him.
This is one of Jehovah’s loving ways.
Lesson 8 shows us
how to become Jehovah’s friend.
This is likely something that most people
have never even thought of.
Can you imagine the privilege
of becoming God’s friend?
Help your students to see how their obedience
and exclusive devotion to Jehovah
pave the way to friendship with him.
Proverbs 3:5, 6
tells us specifically
what Jehovah wants us to do.
Proverbs 3:5, 6 says:
“Trust in Jehovah
“with all your heart,
“and do not rely on your own understanding.
“In all your ways take notice of him,
and he will make your paths straight.”
We show our trust in Jehovah
by doing what he tells us to do
and thereby become his friends.
Jehovah takes good care of his friends,
and he is always loyal to them.
Lesson 9 highlights the power of prayer.
Teach your Bible students
how to pray to Jehovah.
In addition to prayer,
regular Bible reading is also necessary
to make spiritual progress.
Psalm, the first Psalm,
verses 2 and 3, encourages Bible reading.
Let’s look it up together.
That’s Psalm, the first Psalm,
and we’re going to read verses 2 and 3.
It’s speaking about a man of God
who takes delight in God’s Word.
It says: “But his delight
“is in the law of Jehovah,
“[well, the law of Jehovah
is found in the Bible,
“and it says,] and he reads His law
“in an undertone day and night.
“He will be like a tree planted
by streams of water,
“a tree that produces fruit in its season,
“the foliage of which does not wither.
And everything he does will succeed.”
Yes, “everything he does” as a Christian,
leading a Christian life, “will succeed.”
Reading God’s Word
and then putting it into practice
brings Jehovah’s blessing.
Now, if you have a student
who feels limited in his learning ability,
perhaps because of a lack of education,
please encourage him
to go to Jehovah in prayer
and persist in asking him
for help to understand his Word.
James 1:5
assures us that Jehovah is ready and willing
to help those
who ‘keep on asking’ him for help.
Lesson 10 gives this direction:
As soon as possible,
invite Bible students
to attend congregation meetings.
What your student hears and observes
at Christian meetings
can touch his heart
and will help him to progress.
So when you show your student the video
What Happens at a Kingdom Hall?,
that would be a good time
to warmly invite him
to attend meetings.
Also, be sure to invite
a variety of publishers
to accompany you on the study.
In that way, your student will get acquainted
with others in the congregation,
and he will likely feel more at home
when he attends our meetings.
Lesson 11: In this lesson,
we are encouraged to teach our students
how to do personal study
using jw.org and JW Library®.
Show your student how to use these tools.
If you feel a bit unsure
about teaching someone
to make use
of their electronic device for research,
don’t hesitate to ask
for help from the congregation.
There are many
who would be delighted to assist you.
The blessings that we receive
when we teach someone the truth
is described by the apostle John
at 3 John 4, where it states:
“No greater joy do I have than this:
“that I should hear that my children
go on walking in the truth.”
Yes, John is speaking
of his spiritual children.
That same joy can be ours.
What has this symposium
brought to our attention?
It has helped us to see how we can maintain
our zeal for the preaching work.
It has instructed us to prepare well
to share the truth with others.
It showed us how to take the initiative
to give an informal witness,
to follow up on interest,
and to help Bible students
grow to maturity.
If we do the best we can in the ministry,
whether people respond or not,
we will enjoy the peace
that comes from knowing
that we are pleasing Jehovah.
Hebrews 13:15, 16
tells us how to bring pleasure
to Jehovah God,
and that’s certainly something we want to do.
That’s Hebrews 13:15, 16; it reads:
“Through him [that is, through Jesus]
“let us always offer to God
a sacrifice of praise,
“that is, the fruit of our lips
“that make public declaration to his name.
“Moreover, do not forget to do good
“and to share what you have with others,
for God is well-pleased
with such sacrifices.”
Your readiness to share
“the good news of peace” with others
is just such a sacrifice.
And you can rest assured
that Jehovah is thoroughly pleased
with your loving and faithful service to him.